Hi dear listeners.
My name is Irina Shirochenskaya.
I am a candidate of economics, associate
professor of marketing of
the Russian Economic Academy and
Nevelekhanov.
And today we will talk to you about the
basic types of strategy and sustainable
strategy of small and medium-sized
companies.
First we will talk about strategies,
give concepts of strategy,
give concepts of business strategies
and define types of business strategies.
Next, we will examine certain
types of strategies, such as portfolio
strategies, growth strategies,
competitive strategies and conclude
our lecture by considering sustainable
strategies for small and medium-sized
companies and draw conclusions.
We will look at strategies like
the Boston Consulting Group'
s Matrix Strategies, McKinsey'
s Matrix Strategies or General
Electric, DPM Matrix
Strategies, or the Direct
Policy Market.
We will discuss the growth
strategies.
In growth strategies we will consider
such strategies as the strategy
of intensive growth, the ANSOVA matrix
and the ISPAAD strategies, diversification
strategies, diurnal acquisitions
– net diversification,
convergent acquisitions
or concentric diversification,
integrative growth
strategies.
We will consider with you the
types of vertical integration – forward
and backward, horizontal integration.
Consider the outsourcing acquisition
matrix and the underlying strategies
that will include cost-
led domination, differentiation
and concentration
strategies.
In the cost dominance
strategy, we will look at
the strategy of cost-focused,
differential advantage
strategy, and focused
differentiation strategy
in detail, and in
the same section we
will look at the law
of experience.
The law of experience will be considered by us
as a counterweight to the law of scale.
The next section of our lecture
will be devoted to competitive strategies.
In this section, we have
included product leadership strategy,
price leadership strategy, niche
leadership strategy and also
consider competitive advantage
matrix strategies, which include
predictive strategies
and passive strategies.
The last section of our lecture will be
devoted to sustainable strategies
for small and medium-sized companies.
We will look at strategies such as preemptive
strategies and passive strategies,
as well as the main strategies
of small – a false fungus, a
wise sandstone, a roaring bee and
a chameleon.
The essence of any
business, dear listeners,
is the production of
the necessary goods for
the consumer.
From the relationship between the market
and the commodity is derived the central
problem of entrepreneurship, the solution
of which depends on the guarantee of
the existence of the enterprise in
this market.
The concept of marketing involves the
use of strategic approaches to solving
the problems of the enterprise
in the market.
Marketing mechanisms
allow this.
By using market information,
forming its consumer,
designing the competitive
position of the company.
This approach to understanding
strategies is also used
in strategic management.
For example, such a concept as a level
strategy in an organization, the concept
of a strategic business unit, the
concept of a business portfolio.
And so it must be said that without
mastering the course of strategic
management, it is difficult to start
considering the course of strategic marketing.
I am sure you will understand what
we are going to talk about today.
Although these disciplines of strategic
management and strategic
marketing use a similar
conceptual machine and often
use similar strategies, it must
be said that, nevertheless,
today in this lecture we will
consider strategies from
a marketing point of view.
So, first, we will start
with the definition of the
marketing strategy.
What do I see from a marketing strategy?
Marketing strategy is the analysis of the
opportunities of the enterprise in the market,
the choice of a system of goals, the development
and formulation of plans
and the implementation of marketing
activities, aimed at reducing market
risk, ensuring the long-
term and sustainable development
of the enterprise.
But if you comment on this definition,
we see that without an analysis of the
capabilities of the enterprise, the company
will not be able to develop a strategy.
The company then develops a system
of goals, develops a system
of strategies and plans.
And, of course, the next step
will be to develop marketing
measures that will really
be aimed at reducing
risk, because if the company
does not aim to reduce
market risk, it can
fail.
And, of course, one of the main goals
of any enterprise is to establish
a long-term, sustainable development
of the company in the market.
Marketing strategies do not
exist individually, but
are represented in a hierarchy.
In the next slide, we will examine
the hierarchical representation
of the strategy.
As you can see, we see three main
levels in this slide.
This is the corporate level at
which the company's mission is developed.
The next level of business strategies,
which includes 3 types of strategies,
are portfolio strategies, growth
strategies and competitive
strategies.
The next level, lower, is
the level of functional strategies,
which includes more specific
strategies such as production,
marketing, financial
and administrative.
and the next level, it is the level
of instrumental strategies, which
are included from the target market
strategy, product strategies,
price strategies, promotion and
distribution strategies,
which are responsible, in fact,
for the complex of marketing,
but in this lecture we will stop
on considering business strategies,
namely portfolio strategies,
growth strategies and competitive
strategies.
What are business strategies?
Business strategies define ways to
best use the resources of the enterprise
to meet the needs and needs
of the market.
In literature, these strategies
are often called basic
or basic strategies.
So, I would like to remind you
once again that business strategies can
be presented in the form of
portfolio strategies, growth strategies
and competitive strategies.
In today's lecture,
we are strategists.
Let's start with portfolio strategies.
Portfolio strategies are strategies
that allow you to effectively
solve the questions with which
goods or services or their complexes
the company will enter the
market and there is a capital
investment in each of
the areas.
That is why they are called portfolios.
The fact is that companies usually do not
produce one product.
They produce several goods
or several goods and services.
And we must say that, in fact, this
is the combination of all the goods and
services of the company and
is called a portfolio.
These strategies are
called portfolio
strategies.
The next type of strategy is
a growth strategy.
Growth strategies allow us to answer questions
about the direction in which the enterprise
should develop in order to
better meet the requirements
of the market, as well as questions
about how to develop the entire
portfolio of the enterprise
and also how to develop any unit
of the portfolio.
Competitive strategies are
strategies that help an enterprise
to identify competitive
advantages.
Naturally, it is clear
that competition is now
increasing and companies
must be able to develop
strategies to compete
in the market.
Competitive strategies are designed
to address these problems.
So, we will go to look at portfolio
strategies in more detail.
I would like to remind you once
again that portfolio strategies
help companies, multi-
disciplinary companies, that is,
those companies that own a large
business portfolio consisting
of many strategic business units,
to distribute limited
resources between different
strategic business units.
and use the criteria of
attractiveness of market segments
and potential opportunities
of each business unit.
Now we will consider such
concepts as a strategic business
unit, talk about what features
and characteristics
a business unit has and
what a business portfolio
is, I will show you this on
examples.
Business unit is an independent
business unit of the enterprise,
which develops its own strategy
and is endowed with operational
independence.
It can be a particular department
or a single product.
I have to say that at the moment
with the expansion of business we
are increasingly meeting with
such companies that own and
own many business Indians.
If we take the example of a Russian
company, the company Wembeldan will
be a good example.
As you know, the company produces
a large number of foods,
ranging from juices to
water, and also dairy products,
and dairy products for children.
All these areas are business units.
If we consider, for example, the
juice direction, which is represented
by the very well-known J7 brand,
then it is indeed one of the business
units of the company.
The second business unit can
be counted milk products "
Miracle", the third business unit
can be considered baby food "
Aguša" and the like.
And all these business units are
combined, as I said, into a business
portfolio.
Therefore, under business portfolio
we understand the set of companies, goods
and services produced, which are grouped
according to developed criteria
for the purpose of strategic planning
and management.
Well, first, business-connect produces
and implements a certain
investment of goods.
For example, if we look at juice J7,
this brand, then, of course, we see
that a certain product infrastructure
is implemented by the company Vemeldan,
that is, it is different types
of juices - orange, apple,
nectar, and the like.
The second feature of business-
connecting - it is clearly indicated
to a certain group of goods, such
as juice, then the segment is
quite large.
But, nevertheless, we
can distinguish this
segment as people who care
about their health.
Further, the business “Unity” has
a certain circle of competitors.
And, of course, if we look at this
brand, then it will have a
certain range of competitors,
whether it is juices,
competing companies, or
other cooling drinks.
A strategic business unit
must be produced in
a specific geographical region.
And, indeed, if we look
at the J7 brand, it is
made in Russia.
It has its own marketing complex.
Yes, indeed, again, there is a
complex of marketing, a certain
product, price, distribution
and promotion.
And they differ from the marketing
complexes of other strategic business
units.
Of course, if we compare the J7 brand with
the Miracle brand, we will see that the
marketing complexes are completely different.
Again, and by the product itself,
by its characteristics, by price
qualities, by distribution
and promotion policy.
I must say that in simpler organizations
that engage in one type of activity,
the corporate level may
coincide with the level
of business of the units,
but again, now, if we talk
about modern business,
such companies are less and
less.
In conclusion, we would like
to say that a business unit is often
called a strategic center.
So, we have considered what
a business unit and a strategic
business portfolio is.
Portfolio analysis allows
to present in a matrix the results
of research of the areas
of activity of the
enterprise in order
to determine their subsequent
growth and increase profitability.
So, we will now go to considering
portfolio strategies.
The first most widely used method
of portfolio analysis is based on
the application of the "Growth
of market share" matrix.
This matrix is known as BCG or
Boston Consulting Group.
It was developed by the Boston
Consulting Group and is one of
the fundamental matrix in marketing
and management.
The Boston Consulting Group or
BCC matrix uses two criteria.
This is the growth rate of the target
segment as an indicator
of attractiveness and the market
share relative to the most dangerous
competitor as an indicator of competitiveness.
This matrix is presented in the form of
a table, which is divided into 4 squares.
On this slide, dear listeners,
you see the BKK matrix.
We see here such parameters as the growth
rate of the market and the relative market
share.
We have two parameters: high
and low growth rate and also low.
And thus we get when filling
four squares four main
strategies, four main
positions.
It is a question sign or difficult
children, stars, a cow, a dog or losers.
Thus, we see that the question mark
corresponds to a relatively small
market share and a fairly
high growth rate.
In this situation, the growth rate of
the cows is decreasing, but the market
share remains large.
And the losing dogs represent such
a position as a small market
share and a low growth rate.
And based on these provisions, we
can consider the development
strategies of the company
or strategic business units.
So, we will now consider
and analyze all four positions
of the Boston Consulting
Group matrix.
Let us start with the question signs.
The question sign is problematic or problematic
children – characterized by rapid
growth and a small market share.
Goods and services of this category
require significant funds to
sustain growth.
But it must be said that most companies
that enter the markets or bring
out new products to existing
markets, nevertheless, fall into
this category - the question marks.
In other words, these goods or services
are characterized by a small market
share and a fairly rapid pace of development.
But we must say that the signs of the
question are a rather problematic
area, a rather problematic position
of the goods, because the goods are
in a rather disadvantageous position,
because it can either develop
and go into a star, or can be
withdrawn from the market as
unprofitable, as failed.
And so companies need to
invest by transferring these
resources from other areas.
And companies, if they do not
provide financial support, then immediately
this product or service can cross
the area of the dog.
There are two main strategies.
Either increase market share
or invest in goods.
In other words, stop investing
and pull it out of the market.
Well, an example of the question
sign is Donakor, a Donokor product from
Donon, which is now on the market.
As you can see, there is a fairly
aggressive advertising company, but
we can see that the Goods are
developing rapidly, but it
still has a small market share.
It is not known how the consumer
will behave with this product.
It may happen that Danone will be
forced to withdraw this product from the
market.
If the development scenario of
this product is favorable, it
will move to the next category,
which we will now consider.
The next category is the stars.
I would like to remind you that this is a rapid
growth and a high market share.
And, it must be said that if the question
signs are successful,
then, accordingly, they go into the stars.
Well, I have to say that we now
see many examples of stars.
This is, for example, many
Danone products that are in this area.
There are many models of mobile phones.
For example, this is relatively
the latest on the model of Samsung
or other brands.
It must be said that these are
the products-leaders in a fast-growing market.
But if they are not given financial
support, they can also
grow into dogs.
Therefore, the best strategy in this
case will be to provide support,
allocate funds.
And of course, this allocation
of resource transfer
or resource relocation comes from
an area such as the cows.
In fact, they are called so.
The cows are slow growth and high
proportion.
It must be said that these are goods
that are in the zenith of their fame.
They can give a lot of money,
but unfortunately, the market
share is slowing down.
They are a source of
funding for other strategic
business associations that are
in star positions and question
marks.
I have to say that if we talk about
the dog cows, then, for example, if
you go back to the company of Wimbledon,
then, of course, Soki J7 are
just the dog cows.
This is a brand that has been on the
market for a long time.
It already brings a huge
profit to the company.
And the company redistributes
resources, transferring those resources
to other goods and brands.
The priority strategy in this case
will be harvesting.
In other words, the company will
not make any special efforts
to develop any new product
modifications, to improve,
very strong quality
improvement.
The company will simply harvest the
harvest, that is, it will harvest the
fruits of what has already earned this
product or service.
These commodities are, of
course, market leaders, but this position
is quite vulnerable, because unfortunately,
everything ends and
the life of the cow cows can
also end when market share decreases
and growth also
decreases.
And then the breast-feeding cows, this
position, goes to the position of
the dog or still dead cargo.
This is the most unpleasant position in the market.
The company sees that these products
are no longer popular among
consumers, so, in fact, growth
is slowing.
The products occupy a small market share.
Well, we have to say that these are
goods that are either obsolete or that
are no longer necessary for the consumer.
Again, we can give an example of
various older modifications of mobile
phones that have been withdrawn
from the market.
Or, for example, companies
that constantly modify their
products, remove from the market
those models that although still
good would serve, but for the
company they are no longer
strategic priorities.
Therefore, companies will
use a de-investment strategy
or withdraw from the market here.
Before investing I wanted to
remind you, dear colleagues,
the cessation of investing in
this strategic business unit.
This slide presents the characteristics
of the PGD matrix products.
This is the conclusion of what
I just said.
If you look closely, you will
see that the question mark is
the starting point of
most products.
The market has high growth
rates, sales, financing
needs, research, low
profitability due to
the listed factors.
The star is the leader of a
growing market, high sales growth
rate, significant profit and financing needed.
The star usually moves with favorable
development of events into the
cow cows.
Doyne cows are the market leader with
low growth rates.
It is a profitable product.
It brings more revenue than
it requires, and therefore
resource redistribution
to other strategic.
Dines and dogs, or dead cargoes,
are unprofitable, low profitability
or depletion, so the
company often preinvests
this product.
But it must be said that it is sometimes
a socially significant commodity, so
companies should be very careful when
pulling these products out of the
market.
In the following slide, I presented a
practical example of the use of
the Boston Consulting Group matrix.
Sweet Mama is a company that sells
products for pregnant women.
Sweet style.
See how the products are
distributed.
Signs of the question are bandages
and swimsuits for pregnant women.
The stars include jeans, pants,
top clothes.
In a conversation with the company'
s management, I was told that jeans
and pants were recently brought
to market, but they show
a very good growth rate and
already occupy a fairly large
market share.
Doyne cows are pre- and post-
partum underwear, and in this
case the company's products
are very profitable and they
allow you to redistribute
funds to other products such as
swimsuits, jeans and top clothes.
and dogs to dogs relates to cosmetics
and accessories I was also told that
it is quite possible that cosmetics
accessories will be removed from
the market of this company will
not stop before producing cosmetics
and accessories for pregnant
women and switch to focus on other
products more relevant to the company
and so we are Boston consulting groups
and now we will go to the diagnosis
of the product portfolio we
need to say what than the price
of this matrix because it not only
allows you to see what is
happening with the company
as goods and services are
distributed the company also
to conduct a portfolio diagnosis
and identify the future
development scenario in other
words strategically track what
can happen to this product and
so the company proceed to
most profitably use the data
of strategic business-join.
So we see that for the stars
the best strategy would be
to maintain leadership by, as
we have said, funding, redistributing
funds from the cows.
For dogs, this is a drop from the market
or low activity in the event that these
are socially significant goods.
What are socially significant
goods, I hope, you and very often
people who buy these socially significant
goods are from the uninsured
segments of the population, so
companies need, I repeat,
to track their segments very
clearly and maybe not to pull the
goods out of the market so
sharply, but to keep them for
these segments.
For the signs of the question
is investment and selective development.
For Philip Kotler, a well-known
builder, also identified certain
strategies for these positions
in the Boston Consulting matrix.
It identifies four main strategies
to build.
The first strategy aims to increase
market share and even to the detriment
of short-term income.
In other words, a company
can donate short-term
revenues, but thus
invest in long-term projects.
Well, this strategy, Kotler thinks,
is applicable to question signs.
The next strategy is a
strategy called by Kotler as “keeping.”
The aim of this strategy is to
maintain existing positions.
This strategy is typical for
the dog cows.
Indeed, what the cows need
is to hold their positions longer
and get the maximum profit
more to be able not only
to develop data of strategic
business connections, but
also to provide resources
for other strategic
business connections.
The third strategy defined
by Kotler is the harvest.
You probably have heard of this strategy.
This is a very typical marketing strategy.
The goal is to increase the
short-term cash flow, but not to take
into account the long-term effect.
The harvesting of the harvest implies the decision to withdraw
the goods from the market.
In other words, the company simply
collects the harvest, it collects,
it gets the maximum profit and does
not invest in research and development,
quality improvement, and
the like.
Again, I wanted to say that
this strategy is typical
for the cow-dough.
And it can also be used for question
signs if, in case, if the company
feels that by bringing the product
to market in the question mark
category, it understands that
it already needs to overturn
the given strategic business
to connect.
I can give an example of the brand
Ivan Similar, which was derived
by the company, but unfortunately
it had to overturn this brand,
at least in Moscow, in
the Moscow region, and in
this case this strategy was used.
Well, of course, the harvest is
characteristic of dog positions.
The company already knows that it
will invest in this product, but
it simply uses the time to make
all the loyal consumers
of this product or brand or service
use this product, well,
after that it is already pulling
the product from the
market.
The last one is the
investment strategy.
The aim is to eliminate business.
The company either sells its business
or just stops production.
I have to say that Wimeldan
just wanted to invest in the
business with the juice direction
to sell the J7 brand, and
two years ago it just
considered this brand not
only a cow, but also just a dog.
He wanted to negotiate the
sale of this business.
But as you can see, analysts from the
company's top management considered
this a disproportionate step.
And now we see that this brand
has moved back into the position
of the cow, and the company
offers efforts to improve
the quality and modify this
product.
Therefore, it may happen that this
commodity will pass from
a native cow to a star.
These are possible developments.
And, as I said, we can also, by
analyzing the position of the company
and its strategic business
units, develop a future
development scenario.
Here is what the price of this matrix
is, and build trajectories that can
be observed in the dynamic portfolio
analysis.
Two trajectories we are looking at now
can be considered successful,
and two, unfortunately, are not.
Trajectory of the Innovator.
Investing in neocr or research and
development, a tool that comes from the
dog cows, the company brings a
new product to the market, and it goes
under the category of a question mark,
but the company assumes that
it will take the position
of the star.
In other words, it is a trajectory from the
dog cows to the signs of question and the stars.
Trajectory of the follower.
This, again, using the resources of
the cow cows, the company introduces
the market product on the mark of question,
where the leader dominates, explores
aggressive strategies.
For example, the company is a network of restaurants
“Matröška” and “Yelki-pali”.
The company “Yelky-paly” was the
leader in this sector.
The company brought a new restaurant
"Matröška" to the market and used
this trajectory consistently.
In other words, she
redistributed her funds from the dog
cow attempted to fund the
question mark in order for this
category to move into the star
category, what he did and what
he managed.
Two other trajectories.
As I said, the trajectories are
not very positive.
The trajectory of a loser occurs
when, as a result of insufficient
or unthoughtful investment,
the star arranges its
position and goes
into question.
In other words, we see that there is
a reverse movement and it can happen
that the question sign will go to
the dog.
The next trajectory is
the trajectory of permanent mediocrity.
The question sign he fails to increase
his market share and he immediately
moves into the position of dogs.
In other words, summarizing the analysis
of this matrix, we see that the Boston
Consulting Group matrix allows us
not only to determine the position of
the strategic business of the company
or the entire business, or some
individual product on the market,
but also to identify development
strategies, view development
trajectories and determine future
scenarios.
Companies, of course, use this matrix
and determine, of course, how
they will further develop
their products and their
strategic business units.
And with the proper management
of this matrix, the company
gets benefits, because it clearly
understands what resources
and where it needs to move,
and move to what areas, and
what strategic business units.
I must say that the matrix
allows you to analyze on two indicators,
but this is not always enough.
For the multicriteria
assessment, another matrix
is used, which is called
General Electric
or McKinsey.
Why is it a double name?
Because two companies, General
Electric and McKinsey, developed
the matrix simultaneously,
so it is dubbed.
It is used to assess the attractiveness
of individual strategic business
units and the entire business
on the basis of two coordinates.
The X axis, which characterizes the strength
of the strategic business position of the
unit, and the Y axis, is the
attractiveness of the industry.
Each coordinate is determined
by several parameters.
What are the parameters?
This is the index of strength of
position, it is determined taking into
account the indicators of relative
market share, dynamics of development,
the size of profit, image, degree
of competitiveness, price, quality
of goods, efficiency of sales,
geographical advantages of the
market, efficiency of employees.
That is, we see that the strength
position index considers
marketing components.
This, again, is the market share, external
indicators, the amount of profit
received, but also internal positions.
This is the effectiveness of the
work of the personnel, this is the efficiency
of the domestic policy, this is the competitiveness,
this is the quality, this is the price
policy of the company, and the index
of strength and position is adopted three
levels of gradation, the index is a,
medium and weak.
The next index is the attractiveness index.
It is determined by taking into account the
size and diversity of markets, the
growth rate of the market, the number
of competitors, the average industry
size of profit, the cyclicity of demand,
the number of competitors,
the structure of atmospheric costs,
price policy, legislation,
labor resources.
And also three levels of gradation
of this index are used, high, medium
and low.
In other words, when combining these
two indices, as I said, it is the
index of position of strength and
the index of attractiveness, we
get such a matrix, which includes
itself unlike the Boston Consulting
matrix not 4 cells, but already
9.
And we see here the attractiveness of the
industry and the strength of market
positions, the high, medium and
low market attractiveness, and also
the position of business power high,
medium and low, and we get 9 strategies.
This is investment and growth,
investment and growth, selectivity,
harvest harvest, market removal,
selectivity, harvest
collection, market removal, harvest
collection, market removal.
You may ask me what the difference
is.
Of course, each of the strategies
in different positions
has certain advantages and
some certain characteristics.
Therefore, it can be said that investment
and growth in position 1, when the market
attractiveness is high and high,
also the strength of the business,
is different from the selectivity
in square 5, which is characterized
by the average industry attractiveness
and the average position
of the business force.
Let us look at these strategies in more detail.
Speaking of square 1, we can
say that the company must maintain
and simplify its market positions
by investing and ensuring
growth at the fastest
possible pace.
In this case, we can compare this with
the BQG matrix, with the first
square is a question sign.
Also, the company in this strategy
should concentrate efforts onining
the strengths of the business.
The second square, which is called
Investing and Growth, a company
must apply such a strategy, investing
in the struggle for leadership,
selective investment
and business strengths.
In these words, the company chooses
some strengths, strong brands
and invests in them.
They spread on all their products.
Strengthening the most vulnerable
sides.
In this case, Wimbledon has
focused its efforts on strengthening
its vulnerabilities and realized
that it will not withdraw its
J7 brand from the market.
The third square is to ensure selective
growth through specialization
based on the strengths of
the activity.
In other words, the company
specializes in its activities,
it produces some particular
product with certain characteristics.
We will talk about the specialization
strategy further, so I will
not stop in detail now
on this, and let's go further.
The company must also find
ways to overcome its weaknesses
and the company may leave
the market if there
is no indication of acceptable
sales growth.
The fourth is growth
and investment.
The company in this case must
carry out large investments in
the most attractive market segments,
ining the ability to counteract
competitors, to ensure
high profitability by increasing
productivity.
Well, if we compare this approach
to the Boston-Consoldskaya
matrix, we will see that this fourth
position, the fourth strategy,
is similar to the star
strategy.
But we cannot make such direct
analogues; we can make,
so to speak, such indirect
analogues.
The fifth position is the protection
of existing programmes of market
activity, concentration of
investments in segments where
the suitability is quite high,
and the risk is relatively low.
In other words, the company is already
in the fifth square, when we have
an average attractiveness, the average
strength of the business position
is trying to somehow hold its positions.
The sixth strategy is
to keep the harvest.
In other words, the company
must limit the expansion
of its activities and ensure
the harvest that occurs by finding
ways to expand activities
that are not high-
risk.
In other words, the company
either modifies the goods,
or it starts buying licenses,
producing goods under license.
In other words, it does not completely
leave the market, but it slows down
its activity in this segment,
in this strategic business unit, and
prepares this product for withdrawal
from the market.
The seventh position, which
can be called Selectivity, we see
here quite not a profitable
position, it is low attractiveness,
but high business strength.
There is preservation of position
and re-cassing of activity by moving
the focus on earning
current money, concentration
on attractive segments, protection
of strengths of activity.
The last two strategies.
This is the eighth position, with
the main focus being on making money
by protecting positions in the most
profitable segments.
In this case, we can compare this
to a cow-doo, upgrading the product
line and minimizing investments.
The ninth position is the harvest collection
and the withdrawal from the market.
At the same time, it is necessary
to sell goods at a favorable price in
time and dramatically reduce
constant costs, while avoiding investment.
I show that matrix again.
You see, it compared to the
BCH matrix has on the one hand
more detail, but on the other hand
it is quite bulky and uncomfortable
when analysed.
And in this case, companies,
avoiding this bullshit, developed
some other approaches.
There are many approaches to the Boston
Consulting matrix analysis now, and
I will give you an example of
the McKinsey matrix analysis
by Jacques Jean Lambert, a well-
known theorist and practitioner
of marketing and management
who interprets this matrix
a little differently.
As you can see, here we also
see nine positions –
industry attractiveness
and competitiveness, 3 grades,
high, medium and low.
But nevertheless, unlike the
previous analysis, we see here
4 squares filled.
This is a, de-investment, b,
selective growth, c, aggressive
growth, and d, low activity.
We are characterized by low
attractiveness and high competitiveness.
Selective growth
is characterized by
high attractiveness and high competitiveness.
C is low competitiveness and
high attractiveness, and D
is low competitiveness and
low attractiveness.
Let us look at these areas in more detail.
Zone C corresponds to the high
levels of market attractiveness,
as I said, and the competitiveness
of the firm.
And the strategy recommended
by Jacques Jean Lomben is aggressive
growth.
If we compare it with the BCH matrix,
in this case it is more legitimate to
do so, we will see that this zone
C can be compared by analogy
with the stars in the BCH matrix.
Zone A, which is characterized
by fairly high competitiveness
and low attractiveness,
is at a fairly low level and
the best strategy would be
to continue operations
without investing or de-investing.
In this case, we can compare this
strategy to the position of dogs.
Zone B is intermediate.
The competitive advantage, as you can
see, is rather weak, but the
market attractiveness is great.
And therefore, the strategy chosen
by Lamben is selective growth.
In other words, the company selectively
suits strategic
business units, so we can
make an analogy here with a question
sign.
And Zone D is a very unpleasant
situation when we have low activity,
in other words, we have low competitiveness
and low attractiveness, and
Jacques Jean Lamben also advises
companies to pre-invest
this strategic
Well, if we compare
with the BKG matrix, we
can say that it is
either a cow or already
a dog.
So, we have considered with you the second
matrix that is included in
portfolio analysis – it is the McKinsey
matrix or Boston Consulting Group.
There are still some matrix,
and we will stop at the
last portfolio analysis matrix,
which is called Shell or
DPM, Direct Policy Matrix,
in Russian it is a matrix
of direct activity.
I have to say that this matrix is
quite rarely used by the company
because of the fact that it
is really quite uncomfortable to use.
But despite its disadvantages,
it has an
advantage.
In this matrix, the emphasis is placed
on quantitative business indicators.
If in the BQG matrix we are interested
in cash flow, and you remember that
we have always talked about real-location,
that is, the transfer of resources
from one position to another,
in General Electric we consider
investments, investment returns,
then this model combines these
two positive points and allows
you to keep the focus at the same
time on the flow on the personality
and on the company's
strategic decisions on investment
returns.
Thus, this matrix can be represented
as a four-field matrix, it
can be represented as a
nine-field matrix.
The basic ideas of the DPM matrix,
borrowed from the Boston Consulting
Group matrix, are that the company'
s overall strategy should ensure
the maintenance of a balance between
cash surpluses and its deficits,
by regular development of new
prospective types of business, the
redistribution of certain
financial flows from business areas
generating money in business
areas with high potential for
return on investment
in the future.
Thus we represent the DPM matrix,
in this case it is a four-field matrix,
we see two indicators of the market
attractiveness and
the strength of the business
position.
Quiti is a mixture of the two
previous matrix.
Again, two positions are high and
strong and four strategies.
Development strategy, growth strategy,
maintenance strategy and reduction
strategy.
Dear listeners, I will not
stop in detail on these
strategies, because we have
considered almost all of
them in the previous matrix,
namely the Boston Consulting
and the MacKinsey or General
Electric matrix.
In conclusion of this section, I would
like to say about the usefulness of
portfolio analysis.
Portfolio analysis is the completion
of a specific specification
of the strategic
marketing process.
And indeed, when a company at the
strategic level develops
some of its developments,
ways of development, matrix
analysis is sufficient and visible
and useful.
And regardless of the method
used, this analysis is based on
such parameters as a clear distribution
of the areas of activity
by markets or segments.
Indeed, both the Boston Consulting
and General Electric matrix and the
latter matrix look at the direction
of development of certain strategic
business units by segments and
by commodities, and we also look
at a clear distribution of activities
and directions of
investments.
Portfolio analysis helps us to
identify the competitiveness
and attractiveness indicator
that allows us to compare
the strategic
value of different directions.
As you can see, most positions,
most parameters of the Matrix
contained indicators, or
competitiveness, or attractiveness,
or growth, and the
like.
And indeed, this allows us to compare
strategic value and understand
how resources are redistributed.
Portfolio analysis also helps us
to identify the links between
strategic position and
economic and financial indicators.
This is evident in the Boston
Consulting Group matrix.
Also, the matrix representation
allows to summarize the results
of strategic thinking and
present them in a visual form.
Of course, it's quite obvious that
when a company's analysts present
their strategic layouts in the form
of matrix, the company'
s management becomes clear on
how to develop their business.
And I hope that by the example of these
three matrix and by the example of Swidmam,
Swidmam, we could be convinced
of the undeniability of this statement.
Now I would like to go to the second
part of our lecture, namely,
growth strategies.
I wanted to remind you, dear colleagues,
that we are considering in today'
s lecture business strategies,
which includes the portfolio
analysis we have just considered,
growth strategies and competitive
strategies.
Thus, the growth strategies
What do they imagine?
The growth of the company is
a manifestation of its activities.
Of course, when a company is
just formed, it is beginning
to grow.
Someone...
Some companies grow within the
local markets, some companies
leave the local markets
and become national.
Some companies are moving
from national to international.
The transformation of international
companies into transnational
corporations.
This is a completely natural
process of development, all these
transformations are dictated
by the growth of the company well
from a growing company we can call
companies such as laboratory cospersky
this is a company that shows
quite fast and very successful
growth again I can not fail to
mention the company Wimbledon
company Baltimore which produces
various ketchup sauce
and mayonnaise is also
a fast-growing company.
There are many examples of companies
that are developing in the markets.
And, of course, if we look at
transnational companies, we will
see that, of course, they do
not stop in their growth, but
continue to grow and enter new
and new markets.
All the companies that have
come to Russia are transnational,
they continue to develop
in Russia.
For example, the company L'Réal,
it is, as we see, continuing to grow.
Danone, which is also a transnational
company, is continuing
to grow in new geographical
markets.
It must be said that business
activity or growth of a company can
be based on three opportunities.
The first is organic growth or intensive
development at the expense
of own funds.
In other words, the company
does not borrow funds and uses
its own resources.
And already known to you, Jean-Jacques
Lambert calls this condition intense
growth, that is, companies
are developing intensively or
growth within the base market.
Well, in addition to this possibility,
there is another type of growth, namely,
the company acquires other companies
and integrates these companies
into its company.
In other words, the process of integration.
We will talk very detailed about
integration, but we must say that the
different types of integration, such
as integration forward, integration back,
vertical integration, horizontal integration,
and all these types of integration,
they differ from each other,
but the main point, the main
emphasis is made on the fact that
the company joins other companies
and expands and grows at the
expense of not its internal development,
but at the expense of other
companies.
The third possible growth is so-
called diversification.
The company believes that it is possible
not only to join some other companies,
but simply it understands that
it can develop in other
types of business, in other
areas of business, and it goes to
other areas of business that
are not directly related to
the direction of the business
of a particular company.
This is actually diversification.
So, I wanted growth strategies
there are three possible ways.
This is growth within the limits of own
resources, in other words, it is
organic growth, it is integration, the accession
of other companies, and it is diversification,
the company's transfer to other
areas.
Growth strategies include strategies
such as strategies that are part
of the Amsov matrix.
Another matrix, during this
lecture we will have a lot
of matrix with you that we
will consider.
SPADA strategies, which are a modification
of the Antsov matrix or, as one
might say, a mirror reflection
of the Antsov matrix.
The Matrix of External Acquisitions,
the new Boston Consulting Group Matrix
and also the basic strategies for the definition
of Jacques Jean Lambent.
So, let's go to the Antsov matrix.
The Antsov Matrix, named after
the American researcher Igor Antsov
of Russian origin,
allows you to use several
strategies of intensive
growth at the same
time and to analyze them.
It is a tool for classifying products
in different markets depending
on the degree of uncertainty
of prospects and the
possibility of penetration
into other markets.
It also allows for the development
of growth strategies.
Antsov has developed a very good
strategy, a very good matrix,
which is used by most companies.
It is called the product development
matrix.
It is also a four-
band matrix.
In this case, we have two parameters.
products and markets.
Products can be existing
or new.
Markets can be existing or new.
And depending on which products,
in which markets we see,
we can highlight, here
are four strategies.
So, the products available
on the markets define the
penetration strategy, or penetration
strategy in English.
In new markets available products,
they can apply the strategy,
the strategy of market development.
When we talk about new products in
existing markets, it is a product
development strategy or product development.
And last, when it comes to new products
and new markets, a strategy of diversification.
You see, these strategies really determine
the ratio of goods and markets, and
we will look at and consider these
strategies in detail on
examples from the company's
life, so to speak.
Market penetration strategy is a
strategy that is used
when the market is still growing,
it is not yet saturated,
and the company uses existing
goods in existing markets.
What does the company do?
The company is trying to expand its
presence, improve its course,
and build distribution channels.
I think a lot of companies
are using this strategy.
I will lead the company Rotfront,
which produces candy and chocolate
products.
A lot of Rothfront products,
they just use the penetration
strategy.
In other words, we see existing
products, candy or halva that
is famous for Rotfront.
These are products that have long existed
in existing markets.
What does the company?
But first of all, it is trying to
expand sales.
And, indeed, it must be said
that Roadfront has used
different distribution channels.
It has a direct channel, for
example, this store at
the company, at the factory Roadfront.
These are traditional channels, in other
words, it is the distribution of goods to
the trading points through intermediaries.
The company also uses
a vertical marketing system,
that is, it has built such
a channel and uses
some franchising channels
to advance to and other positions
in the markets.
I have to say that the company
is very widely represented, that is,
you can go to any store that was
sold in the store and see there
the products of the company Road
or, if you go to the market, you
will also see the company RedFront.
I must say that the penetration
strategy is typical
for food.
For example, Mayonnaise Kid Provençal or
Mayonnaise F, is also a strategy
of penetration into the market.
The company is trying to simplify
the situation by expanding its distribution
channels, and of course, its outbound
policy, not only outbound policy,
but also pricing and promotion
policy.
Well, this strategy has one
disadvantage, it is very expensive,
because companies need to keep
their competitive advantage,
and, of course, the company
can not always maintain the data
of existing goods on the
existing market, because
other companies come out with
completely new products.
Therefore, the company is forced
to modify the product itself or
the marketing complex in some
way, and what is it about?
Packaging or promotion.
This is mainly about promotion,
packaging and sometimes pricing.
The next strategy is the market
development strategy.
It involves finding new
markets for existing products.
Well, if we look at this widely,
we will see that all companies
that come to foreign markets
benefit from this
strategy.
Take Japanese companies
for example.
Japanese companies have
used this strategy to enter
new markets.
What did they do?
They first tested the product on
their own consumers in Japan.
If it went well, sold well, they
started to go into new markets,
which is behind the existing product,
and with the base model.
This is for example
the automotive industry.
They came out of the basic model
of the existing, of course, goods,
and gradually won their positions
in new markets by providing
very good products of
high quality, not such
high prices and very good
after-sales service.
Well, we have to say that in addition
to Japanese companies, we can take the example
of Johnson's Baby - it is the development
of new markets.
What is it?
This is not just new geographical markets,
but it is a new application.
Johnson's Baby is a baby product
for newborns.
But the company decided to expand
its presence in the market
and repositioned products not
only for newborns but also for
women.
It was assumed that these
newborns were a MAM, but also
now many women use Johnson's
Baby products to moisturize
the skin.
And as you know, the company
promotes these products for
women and says that the skin will
be like a baby.
This strategy is represented
by a very wide range of goods
and services, because, I repeat,
all foreign companies that enter
foreign markets, well, and,
in particular, the Russian
market, used this strategy,
because it is the least
expensive and not so risky,
that is, go out with the
already existing product.
If the foreign market accepts the
product, you can already start
modifications, but if it does not,
you leave with the already
existing product.
Again, entering new geographical
markets, repositioning
– this is also all these marketing
actions relate to the strategy
of market development.
The next strategy is product
development strategy.
It involves the development,
production and sale of new
products in existing markets.
It should be noted here what is a
new product.
New product – the concept of a product
– is a very blurred concept in marketing.
The new product can also be understood as a new
packaging, a modification of the product and
a new packaging of the product.
You can also accept completely
new products, as the English
say brand new.
But we have to say that completely
new products, if we look at the history
of marketing in general, we will
not find a lot of really new
products.
But new products, it is at one
time computers, it is at one
time mobile phones, it is at
one time the Internet, it is
at one time IP-telephony and
the like, now they are not new
products, so companies
are all the time trying
to modify existing
goods, modify either quality,
or modify packaging,
modify price and the
like, or modify the whole
complex of marketing.
Well, an example is Wimbledon, which
has been repeatedly mentioned
today, it is just as a commodity
based on oxygen-milk products,
with the addition of either
some vitamins or aloe juice
and the like.
Well, if we look at this product,
we will see that it is a
deep meditation of existing
yogurt or existing
some kind of cottage and
the like.
The model of the prism 7900, it
is a relative, as the company
itself says, Nokia, a cheaper
brand, a cheaper brand Nokia 7500.
That is, we see that in this
case all companies that introduce
modified goods to
the market use this
strategy, product development
strategy.
This is possible if the company
is already in the market.
The next strategy is a diversification
strategy.
If you remember, this strategy
involves developing new products
in new markets, and it is often
associated with expansion into an
area not directly related
to the company's activities.
In this case, we will talk about
the depression strategy
later, because it will be a separate
strategy, but I can tell you
about the Yamaha company.
I have to say that the company "Yamaha"
associates many people with completely
different products.
For me, for example, Maha is associated
with piano because I am from
a musical family.
For someone, Maha will associate
with motorcycles, for someone with
hi-fi systems, for someone
with guitars and the like.
In other words, the
company does exist for different
segments of markets,
but it exists in different
markets.
And, of course, what connects a pianist with
a motorcyclist?
Certainly not much.
Of course, one can say that people
who are committed to this brand will
buy both a piano and a mach and
a motorcycle.
But it's not the fact that I'm a
motorcyclist and I'm going to buy a piano.
In other words, there is a
diversification of goods.
Or, in other words, care in other areas.
If a company decides to
reduce production and
market presence, companies
can use reduction
strategies.
They can also be formed in matrix
expressions.
And we can say that these
cutting strategies are a
mirror of the strategy of
intense growth.
The downward strategy matrix.
As you can see, we also have products,
product parameter, market parameter,
existing markets and outgoing
markets, existing products
and outgoing products removed
from production.
Milligrams, and the markets available,
already know you the harvest strategy.
Abandoned markets and existing
products, that is, those
products that are demanded from
a particular market, are
a strategy to reduce market presence.
Those products that are removed from
production in existing markets - the
company can carry out a strategy
to reduce the product inum cluster.
And last, when the company leaves
the market and shuts down its activities,
it is a business shrinkage
strategy.
We will now look at these strategies
in more detail.
The harvest strategy is often
used when switching to a new model,
relative to the replaced model.
For example, Aquasystem MT, which
is the official representative
of MET's technology hall
and produces a filter-
barrier to clean the viper,
uses this strategy when
replacing one filter,
an outdated model, with a
new model.
I have to say that I have faced
this personal life, so to say.
I had this system and a filter
barrier, and an outdated model.
When I came to the store and wanted
to buy this model, I was told that
it was no longer being released,
and I had to buy In this case, most
companies use this strategy
when the company not only
wants to pull this modification
from the market, but
also to launch something
in return.
The second strategy is to
reduce market presence.
The title speaks for itself.
This strategy is applied when the
company does not change the
investment of existing products,
just leaves the markets.
Why this happens?
The company can leave the markets for
many reasons.
First, it is some interstate
decisions, changes in legislation,
just does not withstand competition
and curtails its
activities in this
market.
Or macro-environment changes,
some political, economic shifts
are taking place.
There can be many reasons.
This does not mean that the company is
just shutting down its activities,
it is just leaving the market.
Well, an example can be the
brewing company Molson Coos, which
entered the Russian market and
built a factory in Kaliningrad.
But unfortunately, she had
to shrink, reduce her presence
in Russia and leave because
she worked with PIT, but there
was a change of owner, there
was Heineken, which bought
the company, and Molson
Coors realized that
it would be more profitable
to reduce its presence
in Russia.
In fact, it has left the Russian
market.
The next strategy
is to reduce the product list.
It is used by companies when companies
remain on traditional markets, but
they reduce the nomenclature,
that is, they reduce
the quantity of goods they supply.
This is often due to the fact that
the observer has a low
competitiveness of the product, or
it happens that the company understands
that it must transfer
resources to another developing
strategic business.
If you remember, we talked about this,
analyzing the Boston Consulting matrix,
one way or another the company is
simply cutting down the product list.
Well, an example is the Moskawi Milk
Factory in Moscow, if you remember,
earlier the Moskawi Factory, which
produces very good dairy products,
was represented by a number
of goods.
It was milk, and rye, and cottage,
and many other products.
Now we can only see milk.
Unfortunately, we should note
the low competitiveness
of this company.
Despite the fact that the
products are really very good
quality, it still continues
to bottle milk, pour it
into bottles, into a glass
container, which is no longer
a modern approach.
And at the price of this milk, it is
also quite expensive and the
storage time due to the naturality
of production is quite low.
Unfortunately, it can be noted that
the company did not withstand
the competition in the Moscow market
and overturned its presence in
this market.
I have to say that the strategy
of reducing the prejudices on miculators
is characteristic of a market
that is quite competitive.
We can see a lot of Russian products
Smells of the C kasih and Russian
companies that were forced
to follow this strategy.
Because they were local companies
that would climb into the
market.
They could not withstand competition.
Many local companies that brought
their products to Moscow did not
withstand the competition - were
forced to cut the produced Kunure
macl.
They are currently present in one
or two positions on the Moscow market.
The next strategy is a strategy
of curtailing the business,
it is to stop the supply to some
market of all products and organizations
or just stop the
operation.
Why this happens?
Because the company either sells
its place to another organization,
or it simply overturns its own
or it is some changes in the macro
environment, again the
political environment, the economic
environment, changes in other environments,
it is some changes in some legislation
or just companies do
not withstand competition.
Well, the example is the Swedish company
"Skansk", a fairly well-known company,
it plans to shut down its activities
in Russia, the cause was management
errors, that is, it is internal
errors of the company, and as
a result of this the company
suffered large losses and was
forced to shut down its activities,
that is, it leaves the Russian
market.
So, we have looked at two matrix,
the growth matrix and the downward
strategy matrix.
I would like to return to
the diversification strategy.
If you remember, in the Ansov matrix the
last square is occupied by the
strategy of diversification, in other
words, it is the production of new
goods, the entry into a new market
with new goods.
But the strategy of diversification,
if you remember, is aimed at the fact
that companies go into completely different
areas not related to the existing
business, and we can distinguish
two types of acquisitions
in general - divergence and
convergence acquisitions.
We will talk about them.
Divergent acquisitions or
net diversification, as Lamben
says, are aimed at entering
a new area of market activity
for the enterprise that
is not related to its
actual activity.
But the goal is usually, of
course, to expand the portfolio,
to join some new completely
strategic, or simply
to update it.
Well, the goal is to expand the presence in
the market or markets and, of course,
to expand the impact.
Well, we must say that there
are not so many examples of
net diversification, because not
all companies decide on net diversification,
because it is really
a large risk.
The company needs to have
a very large potential to
decide on net diversification.
Even Yamaha is not engaged
in pure diversification, because
it still works in the same
area.
If we talk about guitars and
piano, they are musical instruments.
If we talk about motorcycles,
they are still
consumer goods.
But here is an example of pure diversification
– the industrial Sergey Pugachev
acquired the French chain of elite
stores, restaurants Head Yard.
But, nevertheless, Pogachev
is already the owner of OPC, which
is one of the leading companies
in the field of investment management.
That is, we see that there has
been a pure digitization here, and
Mr. Pogachev decided to simply
acquire a completely different
direction in order to probably
strengthen his presence in other
markets.
But again, I want to repeat
that it must be a very large
company with a very large
financial investment potential
in order to decide
on net diversification.
But in addition to net diversification,
apart from divergence acquisitions,
there is another type of
acquisition or convergence acquisition.
In other words, concentric diversification.
The Company goes beyond
the production chain
within which it has operated
and seeks new activities
that, nevertheless, complement
an existing technological
process or commercial
process.
In this case, the company pursues
the effect of synergy.
In other words, combining
some processes and obtaining an
enhanced process.
Well, synergistic effect – An example
of synergistic effect is an orchestra,
when the instruments sound separately,
they sound separately, when
they sound in an orchestra, we
hear a completely different
powerful sound.
For example, we must say that very much,
speaking of concentric differentiation,
we see many examples, especially
after the reconstruction
period, when Russian enterprises
are forced to survive somehow,
to set up the production of some
goods or some products that
were not directly related to
the release of its traditional
products.
But it was somehow connected
to the production chain.
Well, for example, the Kirov factory
in St. Petersburg, a famous factory
that produced tractors.
Kirovets, he in the 90s set up the
production of urban buses.
Many city buses are now produced
at this plant.
As you can see, of course, the
tractor and the bus are not related
mechanisms, but, nevertheless, it
went beyond the production chain,
but it still started to produce
products that are somehow
still related to the main
type of its activity.
As we have said, one of the opportunities
of the enterprise is precisely
diversification, but
there are two other types.
One of them is integrated
development.
In other words, joining a company,
enterprises in order to simplify
their position in the market.
Integration makes sense when an
enterprise intends to increase its
profitability and control various
strategic business units
or links in the product production
and sales chain.
Integration also exists
in various forms.
First of all, it is integration
forward, integration backwards,
and vertical integration, and
horizontal integration.
We will now look at these types and by type
of integration.
Vertical integration backwards.
What is vertical?
Vertical integration means that
a company joins itself, that is,
it is buying a business that
is either linked to a general
chain, but it is either linked
at a previous stage or
at a subsequent stage.
So, if we talk about vertical
integration backwards, this company
takes over the management
of the enterprise of the
previous stage of the
production chain to ensure
the guaranteed quality
and quantity of products delivered.
Vertical back integration
can be described by another
marketing process, namely
by building vertical
marketing systems
or distribution channels,
where a company integrates
with other companies
to carry out marketing
activities, from
production to product
distribution.
In this case, if we are talking about
vertical integration back, then
the company buys some companies
that are suppliers
to the company.
For what?
To control the entire
process, to protect the
market from competitors.
A good example here will be the
Zoo Baltimore Holding.
As you know, the company Baltimore
produces food products.
These are ketchups, these are sauces,
this is mayonnaise, these are processed
canned fruits and vegetables.
What did the company do?
It has not only bought the fields
on which these tomatoes grow, that
is, it already owns farms, but also
bought the companies that were
engaged in the production
of the tar.
The company also bought
transport companies that are
engaged in the transportation
of this agricultural products
to factories that process
this product.
In other words, the company has done
the integration procedure back,
and now we see that the whole process,
the technological process, is
built into one chain and is
under the control of the Baltimore
Holding Hall, that is, the
company organized Holding.
Vertical integration forward is
actually integration with the enterprises
of the subsequent stage of production
in order to also guarantee
product sales and
better distribution.
We can say that there are many
examples of integration in general.
For example, it is Rosneft, which
not only mines oil, processes
oil, stores oil, but also
has its columns in various
countries.
This is also companies that
are engaged in the processing
and production of fuel, it is Lukoel,
for example, Lukoel, as Rosneft
has a very large network of business
locks not only in Russia, but also
in Europe, Lithuania, Hungary,
Poland and even the United
States.
In other words, by joining,
integrating into its system these
companies that are engaged
in the delivery of fuel consumers,
the company controls and best
brings products to consumers.
I have already said that
building a vertical marketing
system is the same process,
but from a different perspective.
Therefore, it must be said
that the construction of
franchise companies, which
are vertical marketing systems,
is integration forward.
The company "Evroshe" is known to everyone,
especially ladies.
A company that researches,
produces products, perfume products,
it also brings it to consumers
through its points.
In other words, it opens stores
in all countries, it is
a franchise company, and under
the auspices of “Evroshe”,
they sell products of “Evroshe”.
I have to say that companies often
combine two integration processes
– forward and back.
And many companies, especially
companies that are engaged
in oil refining, they integrate
both forward and backwards
at the same time.
And now we have considered with you
the vertical integration forward and back.
Let us go to horizontal integration.
This is another type of integration.
Horizon integration and strategy
have a completely different perspective.
What is the goal?
This will strengthen the company's position
by acquiring and controlling
other companies competing companies
to increase market share, to
increase, to ensure leadership,
well, and, of course, to
make more profits.
Well, to implement horizontal integration,
the company sets the task of
neutralizing existing competitors.
We see many examples of companies
merging, and sometimes this
merger happens on a mutual arrangement,
like Pricewaterhouse, CoopersLibrant,
two large companies merged,
it's also a horizontal
integration.
Well, or here is an example, very
classic, is the merger of two
automotive giants Daimler-
Benz and Chrysler.
Many examples can be given.
I can give you an example because of,
for example, two companies in Lithuania,
two supermarket chains, Maxim and Sauliutya.
Sauliutya was smaller to the network,
it was absorbed by the company
Maxim, and now in Lithuania
there is one network, this is
Maxim, which is represented by
various types of stores.
But, nevertheless, the
company has absorbed another
company, a smaller competitor,
to expand its presence.
Of course it is integration.
There are many such examples,
and, in fact, if we look at
what percentage of types of integration,
horizontal integration will
probably take more than 50
or 60 percent, because it is the
logically determined business
process, it is the absorption
of a weaker competitor
to simplify their positions
and to take a larger
market share.
All of these strategies are outputted
into, can be represented in the
outer acquisition matrix.
So we see two different processes here
– diversification and integration.
We see new areas and old areas.
So we see two processes in diversification
– the implicit acquisitions
and the convergent acquisitions,
which we just talked about,
and we see integrations.
There are two types of integration: vertical
integration and horizontal integration.
Well, what the matrix of external acquisitions
gives us, it gives us a simple matrix
approach and visibility.
And we see so say how companies
can expand their presence
in the market.
Well, again, I want to repeat that there
is, you remember, a third way of expanding
growth, namely expanding at
the expense of internal reserves.
But in this case it does not fall
into the matrix because it is
such a rather minor type of
expansion of growth, because the
main blow falls on either
diversification activity
or on integration activity.
Dear listeners, colleagues, in addition
to the Jacques-Jean Lambert strategy
analyzed above, following Michael
Porter highlights three basic
strategies.
Domination or leadership in cost,
differentiation and concentration.
That is, we will consider these three
main strategies as part of competitive
strategies.
Leadership strategy
by cost savings.
Well, of course, because of the name,
it is clear what is the purpose of this strategy.
At the center of this strategy
is low compared to competitors.
The company has a careful
control of constant expenses.
These are investment costs,
production costs, design
development, new product
development, packaging
development, reduced
care advertising costs
and the like.
I have to say that this strategy
is used by many companies, but the
most bright representative of
this strategy is the company Ikea.
If we look at the philosophy of
this company, it is based on the
strategy of leadership by
saving on costs.
In fact, the philosophy of this company
is based on the fact that the person,
the buyer comes in the model, goes
to the warehouse and collects the furniture
for himself, brings it home
and collects it himself.
In other words, the company reduces
prices by saving on costs.
In this case, it
manifests its competitive
advantage as a cost savings.
But, of course, it must be
said that many companies that
are not as big as Ikea, also
act and follow can not go into
the market with very high-quality
goods, or they are small
companies that can not compete
with larger companies, and
they thus win by reducing
costs and thus lowering
the price.
In the case of a narrow range of market
activity and therefore competitive
struggle, we can see a modification
of this strategy.
It is a strategy of focusing on costs.
In short, the company is
simply focused on costs, and thus
produces products of not very
high quality.
I have to say that the strategy
of focusing on costs is Chinese
companies that produce
such consumer products.
Unfortunately, this is the
same strategy, or fortunately,
the strategy of differentiation
is another strategy, The second strategy
is one of the fundamental marketing
strategies and the essence of this
strategy is that the product is
given distinctive properties
or characteristics that are
important to the consumer.
That is, the consumer through differentiation,
through some distinctive properties
and qualities of the goods, it
can be the price, it can be
the quality, it can be the packaging,
it can be the distribution,
it can be the whole complex,
it differentiates the goods
from the other.
Well, and thus the company is trying
to create, of course,
monopolistic competition, because
of its distinctive characteristics,
but it is not all companies
succeed.
It must be said that the differentiation
of goods is now a universal,
actually, strategy.
There is no company that
does not use this strategy.
But Kotler said differentiation
is easy to, but very
difficult to maintain.
In other words, you can
really come up with some move
and really make your product
or service differentiated
from your competitors.
But if this distinctive property
is very successful, then, of course,
competitors will not take advantage of it.
Differentiation is difficult to maintain.
That is, in other words,
differentiation is directly related
to a competitive advantage,
as you understand.
But I can give you many examples.
For example, if we take
mobile phones.
As you can remember, the first
company to launch mobile
phones was Motorola.
It followed this strategy of differentiation.
It has differentiated itself by
producing an entirely new product,
but as you can see, there are now
a huge number of phones, and if
we don't look at the logo that is
drawn on the phone, sometimes we
may not even understand what brand
is in front of us, because the
design is similar, and some
similar features, and the like.
Well, of course, if we take,
for example, the company Nokia,
it has a certain specific
menu that distinguishes
this phone from the competitors.
I must say that in the service sector
this strategy of differentiation
is very strong and often used, and
I repeat, it is really difficult
to hold on to.
Differentiation, I would like
to repeat, can take
very different forms.
It is a complex of marketing, it is a price,
it is a promotion, it is a product, it
is a distribution, it is also a design,
it is also a after-sales service, it
is all technological innovations and
modifications, it is an appearance
and the like.
The next thing I wanted to say
is that differentiation, like cost
leadership, protects an organization
from competitive forces.
But differentiation
helps in relation to
direct competitors, helps
companies to get away from
competitors by growing
their loyal or dedicated
consumers.
Also, a company that
differentiates in the market,
it reduces price sensitivity,
because according to
research, loyal consumers of
a brand are less sensitive
to price.
If companies raise prices, loyal
consumers are not inclined to
move to competitors because they
are committed to the brand.
And of course, the strategy
of differentiation, as well
as cost leadership, protects against
replacement goods.
But it must be said that the strategy
of differentiation protects
against substitutes to a greater
extent than, of course, the strategy
of cost leadership.
It must be said that the strategy
of differentiation requires significant investments.
Well, this is understandable,
because the company must constantly
modify, improve its product
and the additional investment
is always needed.
And if we remember the first part
of our lecture, namely portfolio analysis,
in this case portfolio analysis
helps us to understand where to
get these funds from the bottom
cows, what strategic
business connections with the bottom
cows and where to transfer
these funds.
For a wide range of activities,
the strategy takes the form
of a strategy for obtaining
a differential advantage.
For a narrow range, this differentiation
strategy takes the form of
a focused differentiation strategy.
In other words, the
company focuses
only on a certain advantage.
Well, for example, if we take
a cafe that is located higher than
the institution, then here we see,
of course, a strategy
of focused differentiation.
What is focused differentiation?
It's speed, it's knowledge of
the students' schedules,
it's the quality of this food.
Well, actually, of course, if we
look wider, we will see that
very many companies also have
these differential qualities, but
it is the knowledge that can
be the schedule, the
knowledge of the wishes of
students and faculty, are such
parameters that can, which
companies follow, following
a strategy of focused
differentiation, and will
get a profit.
Well, we can consider an example,
a broader example, of a strategy
for gaining a differential
advantage on the Samsung example.
Samsung, one of the leading companies
manufacturing household appliances,
mobile phones and the like,
It was founded in 1968, and
it is, as I say, as I said,
one of the leading
companies.
And, of course, it is leading
a very intense competitive battle
with its competitors, such as
Motorola, Nokia and other manufacturers.
But Motorola and Nokia are
the main competitors to Samsung.
It must be said that according to
Samsung analysts themselves,
it is interesting that it is the
distinctive characteristics
of Samsung cell phones that
have forced Nokia to improve and
expand the range of its mobile phones.
Although for this moment, the Finnish
company Nokia did not make any special
efforts, it emphasized the
quality of products and remained a monopoly.
I have to say that
this is the strategy of differentiation
of Samsung is that it produces
a very large range,
a large range
of cell phones.
In other words, we can say that this
strategic business will
unite, yes, mobile phones are
represented by a very large
number of nomenclatures.
And Samsung constantly produces
modifications, replacing some
models with other models.
Also, being a distinctive or
differential advantage of Samsung,
is that the company produces
a large range of phones, mobile
designed for different segments
that have similar
characteristics in addition.
That is, in other words,
a person who has a small
amount of money and needs
a simple, some reliable
device can buy this phone,
as well as, in fact, a
person who has significant
funds, wants to buy a
very such a rough model.
But in this case, the design
of the phones will not differ
so much, and therefore these
different segments will
not feel any violation
and the like.
And the catalogue of Samsung
phones is so wide that
no other manufacturer can
boast of such a product line.
We talked about a differentiation strategy.
We have discussed two sub-parts of
this strategy.
This is a strategy for
obtaining differential advantage
and focused differentiation.
We once looked at examples of focused
differentiation on the example of
dining rooms or cafes in higher education
institutions and strategies
for gaining differential
advantage on the example of Samsung.
Now let us consider the strategy
of focused differentiation.
For example, the network of pharmacies
of the capital Medical, which operates
in Moscow quite successfully,
began to use this strategy among
the pharmacies of Moscow, that
is, it focused on a certain market.
She offered her customers delivery
of goods to the home, starting from the
amount of 300 rubles.
And took the leading position
from the 99th year until 2004.
Why is this number worth?
The fact is that this is
the differential advantage I
have mentioned, which is easy,
sufficient, easy to win,
very difficult to hold.
And now we see that all major networks
and not large networks offer this
service.
In other words, delivery of medicines
through Moscow through intermediate
courier service start
certain amounts.
In other words, this company
has already lost
differential advantages.
Yes, of course, those loyal
customers who use the services
of this capitalist network, pharmacy
network, of course, know and use
it, but nevertheless you can
take advantage of a completely
similar service from
other pharmacy chains.
Also the delivery of goods.
If the first on the market came the
store "Seventh Continent" in pool
7-7, now this service, delivery
of goods through courier service
is carried out by a lot of stores.
Therefore, again, this strategy
is very dangerous in terms of
the fact that you need to be on check
all the time, all the time you need
to look for new differential
advantages and all the time
you need to modify this strategy
in some way to get some profit.
I have to say that all these strategies,
they found a reflection of the matrix
of basic strategies of
declaring advantages.
We see here four main strategies
– leadership power of costs,
which we have now considered with
you – obtaining differential
advantage, focusing on
costs, and focused
differentiation.
As part of the strategy of leadership
by cost savings, which we talked
about earlier, the strategy will be considered
as well in the laws or effects of
experience and scale effects,
which are also presented
in the form of a new matrix of the
Boston Consulting Group.
I must say that acquiring market
power through successful differentiation
of goods is one of the ways
to a competitive advantage,
as I mentioned.
The second is dominance
on costs.
Cost reduction can be achieved
in several ways.
And in the process of the company's activity
it was noticed that in industries
with a large share of manual labor,
it is some kind of sewing workshops
or clock workshops, in other words,
in industries with a large share
of manual labor, where the added
value is a significant cost as the
experience of the production of
goods accumulates, in other words,
the cost reduction occurs because
the workers or employees of the company
improve their work techniques the
company masters new kinds of production
processes new machines
and the like improves the concept
of goods all this leads
to a reduction in costs that
is, we talk about that experience
that is accumulated by the
employees of the company, leads
to a reduction in costs.
And in the late 1960s, the BCG group,
known to you for developing the
Boston Consulting matrix,
confirmed the existence
of the experience effect, applied
to a very large group of
different products.
On this basis, the law of experience was established.
Why we talk about cost reduction
strategies because it is
directly related to it.
The strategic importance of the
experience law is due to the fact
that it allows for predicting the
evolution of costs, in other words,
what costs can be achieved not
only for own goods, but also for competing goods.
In other words, we can understand
how your competing company
can reduce costs by acquiring
that experience.
The law of decline states that
the cost per unit of the product
when it is added to the
standard product, measured
in constant monetary units,
is reduced by a fixed
percentage for each
doubling of the product.
I will comment on this
statement that, in other words,
the costs that a company incurs
per unit of product when obtaining
added value can be reduced
and can also be measured
in constant currencies.
In other words, a company that
will track the application
of its legal experience can
track how much its cost in cash falls
with the improvement of
the legal experience.
In other words, when the employees
acquire experience, the costs
are reduced, and these are expressed
in cash, more so that these
costs are reduced by a
fixed percentage with
each doubling of the product.
In other words, if a company
produces more and more products,
there is a reduction in costs
by a certain fixed
percentage.
The definition of the law of experience requires a number
of clarifications.
First, the term “experience”
here acquires a certain
economic specific meaning.
This is the total number of units of
goods produced.
Not the years in which
the product was produced.
And second, it should not be confused with the
growth of the release over a certain period
with the increase of experience.
It grows, experience grows both
in stagnation and decline in production,
because experience is acquired
by building up some production
capacity, and thereby costs
are reduced.
The effect of experience concerns
only the costs associated with the acquisition
of added value.
I would like to remind you
what added value is.
These are all under the control of the
company's costs.
For example, it is processing, assembly,
sales of service products.
The value added is equal to the
difference between the selling price
and the material costs.
And, therefore, the cost of obtaining
the added is the cost of
ownership, minus the material costs.
Therefore, experience itself does not
reduce costs, but rather provides
an opportunity for their reduction.
I must say that the effect of experience
is very often confused with the effect
of scale, but these are different effects.
What is the scale effect?
The effect of scale on the conditional
size of the operation, and we remember
that with each subsequent product
production costs are reduced, and
the effect of experience
is manifested over time.
In other words, when we have a scale effect
on the face, it is due to the size
of the operation.
That is, we produce more and more
products and thus reduce costs,
and experience is manifested
over time.
In other words, there is a reduction in
costs by accumulating experience, by
gaining experience with employees
of the company, by mastering the
name of some new technologies
and the like.
Therefore, this temporary component
is what differentiates these effects.
And confusion arises because
as experience accumulates, scale
can increase, naturally
because when experience accumulates,
a person begins to serve,
say, the client, begins
to perform some operations
faster, and, naturally,
costs also fall because
the volume of the
operation increases.
The second difference is that
the effects of scale
always appear.
In other words, dividing the constant
cost into a large number of
units will inevitably lead to a
reduction in the cost per unit
of goods.
That is, the more you will
produce units of goods, the
more costs will be reduced.
This will result in scale,
scale savings.
Experience does not always show.
It only appears with time,
as I said.
Therefore, the gain on costs as a result
of experience does not manifest spontaneously.
It is the result of concerted
efforts to reduce costs.
And so it can be done here that the
effect of scale can arise
as a result of the effect of experience.
I have already said this again,
illustrating by example.
That when an employee is exposed
to the effect of experience, in other
words, it reduces costs due to the
fact that employees work more
harmoniously, they gain more experience
by using a particular technique,
some approaches in introducing
business to the like, there
is a decrease in costs, and there
is also an increase, acceleration
of the operation, and thus
there is the effect of scale.
Therefore, the scale effect can arise
as a result of the experience effect.
For example, the cost of financial
resources for a firm should
decrease as it develops and
others gain access to other
cheaper sources of finance.
The model of the experience curve is presented
here in a graphical form.
We see a curve that decreases here,
and here two parameters are the cost
per unit of product, it is y and
the axis x is the cumulative cumulative
volume of the products produced.
The law of experience can be represented
in mathematical form, it can be represented
by a given, by a given formula,
sp equal to sb, multiplied by
qp divided by qb, and in this case
we see here the constant of the
elasticity of the individual costs.
Well, this mathematical formula
can be presented in a different form.
We see here such a formula that
the cost produced is equal to the
base costs, the predictable
total output divided by the
total output, by the basic
total output.
I must say that are naturally
resorting to mathematical calculations
of the experience curve and calculating
the reduction in costs that
comes from the law of experience.
This law, the effect of experience,
the curve of experience is, there is still a limitation.
What are these limitations?
The law of experience is
not universal.
This does not apply to certain
sectors of the economy.
It is primarily implemented either
in those sectors where the percentage
of labour is very high, or where
large production gives an economic
advantage and where the effect of
training is significant, that is,
where the training of personnel
gives a very large economic
effect.
You can take companies, for example,
investment companies or insurance
companies, where really
training of personnel will give
a great economic effect.
Here there the effect of experience
will work a lot.
I must say that where it can be
any production of producing something,
but, for example, the effect
of experience does not work so well
in educational institutions, because,
of course, the teacher can
accumulate, of course, experience,
but every time, offering and
sharing knowledge with different
audiences of different training,
it can lead to a reduction
of this effect of experience.
Well, the typical situations where this
effect is ineffective are such that the
learning potential is small, or the
share of the delayed cost is insignificant.
In addition to market share, profitability
is also influenced by other factors,
such as legislation, as we have already
said, a strategy of differentiation
that is important for buyers.
And in this case, the experience that
is accumulated and which leads to
reducing costs is not so important.
Consumers would prefer to buy
a more expensive model because
it has a number of competitive
advantages.
They buy a cheaper model, despite
the fact that the cost, suppose,
has been reduced.
Therefore, it can be concluded that
the law of experience should
be considered in a special context.
I repeat again, it is necessary
to clearly imagine that in this case
we are dealing with the accumulation
of experience as a temporary
component, and, of course, we
can only talk about reducing the
restraints by receiving added value.
We have examined the law of experience
and its comparison with the effect of scale.
And the next strategy, which is
one of the basic strategies,
along with the cost reduction strategy
of differentiation strategies,
is the concentration or specialization
strategies.
But this strategy is aimed at
concentration, the needs of some
one segment or part of the
segment below or some competitive
group of buyers.
The company does not aim
to cover the entire market.
If we consider previous
strategies, which, for example,
a cost-saving strategy, it
was the opposite, it wanted
to cover the entire market
by reducing costs.
In this case, the company does
not set its goal of reducing
costs, it puts and covers the
entire market, it sets its goal
of concentrating on any one segment,
or on some part of the segment,
on a competitive group, but
will supply a product that
has some certain
characteristics.
Well, such a strategy can rely
on the two previous strategies,
or on each separately, but
can also be used separately.
A strategy of specialization
or concentration allows you to
an absolute high market share
in a specific target segment.
For example, the Danish firm Buhl
& Kir produces eye pressure
measuring devices, very specific
medical equipment, and
controls 85% of the European
market.
Its positions are far more than
the presence of the main Toshiba
in the same market.
Why is?
It is specialized in the
production of this device.
While Toshiba specializes
in the production of completely
different medical
devices.
This is the measurement of eye pressure,
blood pressure and the like.
Not to mention that it
produces various goods
both for consumer and industrial
purposes.
We have spoken about the fact that the
law of experience and
all of these strategies above can
be combined into a new BCG matrix,
in other words, the Boston Consulting
Group matrix.
The Boston Consulting Group, which developed
the BCC matrix that we discussed with you
in the first part of the lecture, has made
a great contribution to the expansion of
the application of the law of experience.
In fact, in the 1960s and Consulting
Group brought this law of experience.
And in 1981, the Boston Consulting
Group – a company – transformed
all these strategies into
a new matrix, which was called
the new BQG matrix.
It examines the opportunities for
growth of the enterprise based
on strategic decisions
applied with two indicators in mind.
What are indicators?
The first is the cost or cost of volume
effect, based on the experience
effect and suggests that when the
production volume doubles, the costs
are reduced by 20 percent.
In fact, it is the consequence of the
law of experience that when this law
is applied, the costs will be
reduced by half.
And also the effects of differentiation
of goods, which we talked about with you, is
based on the accounting of the life cycle of goods.
Thus, in the course of the life
cycle, every product must undergo
constant changes and improvements.
As a result of this research, a
matrix was obtained.
Each quadrant is met by
a specific competitive
strategy or situation that requires
a specific approach.
This matrix looks more in detail
at the specialization or concentration
strategies, the differentiation
strategies we talked about earlier.
Look at this slide and you will
see that everything is analyzed.
We see with you two approaches
to cost and volume effect, experience
effect and differentiation effect.
We have two parameters -
strong and high.
The effect of differentiation is strong and
high, the effect of cost and volume, that is,
the effect of experience.
We see with you four main strategies
– specialized activities,
concentrated activities,
fragmented activities
and non-perspective activities.
I must say that we have already said,
we have analyzed the strategies
of specialization and concentration,
so we will not be self-
conducted to consider these two
strategies, we will talk about潮 fragmented
activity and unperspective
activity when the effect is
sufficiently low and strong effect
of differentiation low
effect of volume cost volume.
But high effect of differentiation
or unperspective activity when
there is a weak effect of differentiation
and a low effect of cost
of speech and volume
Fragmented activity can
be used in two cases.
The first is when the initial
level of production, potentially
promising products, fashionable
biotechnology, nanotechnology,
superconductivity and the
like occurs.
And the second is when the
work requires development and
highly differentiated approach
or individual some consulting
services, or engineering services,
or it is some very complex insurance
cases, or it is the development
of original methods
of some restoration,
conservation and the like.
So here we are dealing with
a certain fragmentation.
Of course, the scale effect here
will be quite high.
And the second case, and
the second strategy, is hopeless activity.
That is, in this case, the company
has very little opportunities
for differentiation, we will look
again, we see that there is a
weak differentiation and low cost.
That is, unperspective
activity, what can the company
do here?
It can either change its
nature of activity, in
other words, it is going to
go to other areas, or it
can simply stop its activities.
I must say that the new BQG matrix
is used by companies when it is already
necessary for companies to
determine what kind of
specialization and what kind
of fragmentation should be applied.
Before that, I would like
to emphasize that you and
I once again considered strategies
such as cost-focused
or cost-differential advantage,
cost-leadership, differential
advantage, and specialization
concentration.
In fact, the new BQG matrix simply
looks at all these strategies
in some way more in detail and
naturally still attracts the
law of experience here.